Step 3 of DGE analysis of matched polya and stranded samples (#10)
PediatricOpenTargets/OpenPBTA-analysis: analyses/rna-seq-protocol-dge/README.md

## Differential gene expression analysis comparing poly-A and ribodeplete-stranded RNA-seq protocols

**Module authors:** Yuanchao Zhang ([@logstar](https://github.com/logstar))

### Purpose

> Perform differential gene expression (DGE) analysis to compare RNA-seq libraries that are prepared using poly-A or ribodeplete-stranded protocols from the same samples.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Perform a first-pass differential gene expression (DGE) analysis (as described in the [RUVSeq vignette](https://bioconductor.riken.jp/packages/3.0/bioc/vignettes/RUVSeq/inst/doc/RUVSeq.pdf)) among samples prepared using both poly-A and ribodeplete-stranded protocols. Using housekeeping genes identified as part of the Housekeeping Transcript Atlas, the goal of first-pass DGE is to identify empirical negative control genes in a paired poly-A vs ribo-deplete comparison to identify stably expressed genes that would be suitable to inform batch corrections for other DGE comparisons whose samples vary by RNA-seq library enrichment method. 
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Housekeeping gene list (HRT Atlas v1.0 database; PMID: 32663312) - https://housekeeping.unicamp.br/?download
```

> Check whether the p-values from DGE analysis follow a uniform distribution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Evaluate the p-value distribution from first-pass DGE analysis, which will likely exhibit rightward skew.
```

> Select genes that are stably expressed in poly-A and stranded RNA-seq libraries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select genes that are stably expressed in poly-A and stranded RNA-seq libraries as empirical negative control genes for use in other DGE analyses varying by library enrichment method.
```
